Okay. Hi, everyone. Hope you're having a great
Monday. So me and Sophie are going to
be talking about auth today, and it's kind
of a really meaty lesson and workshop. So
don't worry if you guys feel a little
oh, can you mute my thing? Yeah. Don't
worry if you guys feel a little confused.
But yeah. So I'm gonna talk about some
intro first before we actually get into the
workshop. So hopefully you guys can understand things
conceptually a little better. When we refer to
auth, we are gonna be talking about both
authorization and authentication. And we're gonna talk about
like what the differences between those are as
well in the introduction. So you can see
here on Abby's Facebook, right, if we're having
like like our cat book for example, we
want users to be able to know who
they are when they're logged in and also
like what stories and comments correspond to their
profile specifically. So with Facebook, how do we
know that, like, Kaylee Mary posted this meme,
for example, and, like, Abby it's on Abby's
profile, and she's the one currently logged in.
So authentication deals with how we are proving
our identity to a website. It's basically the
website saying like, hey, this user is who
they claim to be and like this is
all the information that falls under that user's
login stuff. So when the client is sending
a post request and pinging the login API
endpoint, our server needs to be able to
find the user's information within MongoDB in a
stored database of users by checking if it
has the credentials that the user is claiming
to have. So one way that we can
store username and password information is by just
creating a user schema in our database. So
if you guys remember from the database lecture
that Sophie and I gave, we talked about
how schemas are ways that we can enforce
structures onto documents. So do you think that
it's feasible for us to just create a
user schema like this with fields like name,
email, password, and store them as strings within
our database? Give me a thumbs up if
you think this is a good proposal and
thumbs down if you think no. Okay. I'm
seeing some mixed, but yeah, the majority is
thumbs down and they'd be you'd be exactly
correct because the password is not encrypted at
all. Right? So having developer access to all
of the passwords of users platform like this
is extremely bad because it can very easily
get leaked and then hackers can very easily
access it. And most of the time, you
guys probably use like the same password across
multiple different applications. So you're not just like
leaking the password for this one application, you're
leaking the password for like probably like, I
don't know, your entire what's the word I'm
looking for? Net worth. Yeah. Okay. So we
have one potential solution which is using hash
functions. Hash functions basically just take in a
string like this, and they'll use a mathematical
function to generate, like, a crypt encrypted string
as an output. Hash functions are one way,
so our output hash doesn't tell us anything
about what we actually inputted to the function.
And they're also deterministic, which means the same
input gives you the same output hash values,
which is nice. Right? You might think like,
wow, now we can just store our passwords
after running them through this hash function because
now they're like these encrypted strings. So this
might be better. Right? What do you guys
think? Like, thumbs up for better solution or
thumbs down for no? Okay. I'm still seeing
some thumbs down and you would be correct
again. Because one of the things we actually
have is like online, you can just look
up the hashes that correspond to some of
the really common passwords that people use. So
you can, like, very easily kind of, like,
guess a lot of different passwords and see
the corresponding hash functions that already exist. And
like, if someone's testing like a million passwords
a minute, they can like probably get it
within like a few hours. Right? So it's
still not that secure. Okay. So we have
like another option, is we can do something
called password hash salting, where we add a
salt to our hash function, which is just
like another kind of like ran it's just
like more data that we're adding to our
initial input to the hash function. So it
makes it like a little more secure because
these salts are pretty hard to decrypt and
like, it makes it diff more difficult for
hackers to decrypt it. But I'm not gonna
go into the details of what, like, salting
actually looks like, but it's basically just adding
a lot of, like, random data to our
string to begin with, so it becomes a
little more secure. But this is still not
that secure because, again, like we talked about
before, right, the passwords are not rate limited.
So someone can just be testing as many
passwords as they can possibly test in a
given time frame. And at some point, they're
most likely going to be able to get
the correct password. Right? So the conclusion for
all of this long tangent was just that
storing passwords is really difficult. So instead of
like having to store passwords by ourselves on
our web applications, we're just going to make
it easier for us and use Google. So
Google has this really nice authentication setup that
they have already created, and we are just
going to take advantage of this for our
own purposes. So you guys probably are very
familiar with the login with Google button that's
on, like, probably, like most pages these days.
And so, for example, if I'm trying to
sign in to MongoDB, right, I can choose
an account to log in. But you might
be thinking like, this is pretty interesting, right,
because we're signing into MongoDB, but we're seeing
like the the Google URL. But MongoDB has
nothing to do with Google. So how does
MongoDB get the information from Google that we've
successfully logged in and prove that we are
who we say we are? So how does
a website know that we've logged into Google?
So for example, on Piazza, this is another
kind of issue that we need to take
into consideration, is that if I do log
in and say that I'm, like, me, right,
the other thing is, like, I'm logged in
as an instructor, so I should have instructor
permissions, which means I should be able to,
like, post things as an instructor. So besides
just proving to the website that we are
who we say we are, we also should
get specific permissions or things granted to us
if we have different roles on that website.
So like a student dashboard should look different
from an instructor dashboard. This is also like
a pub to fill out the food thoughts
post because no one responded. Yeah. So currently,
right, like basically what we're looking at is
we have like a user sending a post
request to our login API endpoint with their
username and password information. But let's and then
the server should send back the information that
the user should see on their front end.
But let's say we have, like, a lot
of different machines sending this request at once,
and they're all pinging the API login endpoint.
How do we know that, like, Sophie's pinging
the API login endpoint and, like, sending a
GET request to fetch all of her stories
is different than, like, Arando pinging the same
endpoint? Like, how does the server tell who's,
like, who's making that GET request? Well, one
of the things we can try is, let's
say we just send the username of the
person that's logged in in the query parameters
of the GET request. Do you guys think
that this would work server to be able
to differentiate who is logged in and, like,
accurately recognize them? Thumbs up for yes, thumbs
down for no. Yeah. I'm seeing a lot
of thumbs down, which is correct. Because query
parameters like this can very, very easily be
changed. Right? Like, you can just literally go
into the query parameters and, like, delete it.
So I can just write, like, username equals
Sophie, and then I would, like, be Sophie.
But that's not what we want. Right? So
let's modify this proposal a bit. What if
instead of looking at the query parameters, we
look at the IP address of who's sending
it? So we say like, oh, Sophie is
sending this GET request and then the Rando
is sending the other GET request. Can we
use that to differentiate who is actually logged
in? Thumbs up for yes, thumbs down for
no. Yeah. I'm still seeing a lot of
thumbs down, which is correct because IP addresses
are not secure because they can very easily
be spoofed by hackers. So we can't use
the IP address to differentiate who is logged
in either. The conclusion of this second long
tangent is that we can never really trust
the client. So no matter what the client
says, it's very easy for them to just
lie about who they say they are by
either faking the query parameters or spoofing their
IP address. So we can have this normal
mongoose saying they're Sophie. We can also have
a malicious mongoose hacker saying they're Sophie. And
there's no way to really differentiate these if
we trust the client. So to recap what
we've talked about so far, if we log
into a website with Google or using some
other third party authentication service, you guys have
probably heard of other authentication platforms, like MIT
uses Okta. How are we proving to this
website that we've logged into Google or this
other authentication platform? And once we've actually logged
in and we continue making GET requests, for
example, how does the website know that we've
already logged in and can show us different
permissions based on who we say we are?
And we want to do all of this
without trusting the client because we all saw
how that turned out. Not great. Right? So
we have these really cool things called sessions
and tokens. Okay. So let's talk about sessions
first. So what sessions do essentially is now
when a user is logging in, they're going
to send their credentials over to the server.
And the server is going to store all
of the user's information in something called, like,
a global session lookup table. Essentially, it's just
this table that is globally accessible, and it'll
have information with a session ID corresponding to
all of the user's information. So like here,
you see like my username and my user
ID and I have this uniquely generated session
ID. Now what the server is gonna do
is it's gonna send a response to the
client with the uniquely generated session ID for
that specific client. And the client is going
to use that session ID and send it
back to the session when making future not
session, send it back to the server when
making future requests. So anytime the client pings
the like makes a GET request in the
future, they're gonna send this session ID back
in the form of a cookie. And then
the server is going to be able to
send a response back corresponding to that user
specific unique session ID. Okay. Why do you
guys think that sessions can solve the problem
of verifying that we're actually logged in? Turn
and talk to a neighbor. Like, how does
this solve all the dilemmas that we just
talked about earlier? What do you guys think?
Give you, like, thirty seconds. Okay. Hopefully you
guys had time to think about it. But
does anyone want to take a stab at
how sessions solve the problem for us? Okay.
It's okay. I understand. But basically, right, so
sessions remember when we like, we're looking at
the diagram previously, we saw that the server
was storing all of the user's information on
the server side. Right? So all of the
user information is being stored securely by the
server, like stuff like username, right, user ID,
and the only thing that the client is
actually getting is the session ID that was
generated by the server, and they're just sending
it back in the form of a cookie
on future requests. So now all the sensitive
information is stored securely on the server instead
of having the client send their information and
their credentials back to the server. So this
is more secure, right, because we can see
that instead of the scenarios we were describing
previously, where the client can just modify their
query parameters or modify their IP address, now
the server is securely storing all of the
information about a user. And the only thing
that the user is getting is the session
ID, which they're gonna send back in the
form of a cookie on future requests. So
our session is stored on server on our
server. This is kinda like the key point
of sessions. But there's a couple of issues
with this too. Let's say we have multiple
different servers. Right? Can you guys, like, think
for, like, twenty seconds about, like, what's one
potential problem that we might have if we
use sessions and we're running, like, multiple different
servers? Feel free to talk with each other
also. Okay. So yeah. When storing data on
multiple different servers, you can imagine that each
server now needs to store its own global
lookup table for the session IDs. Right? And
so this can get kind of messy because
now we have like five different servers with
five different global lookup tables and like so
many users using our platform, it can get
kind of messy. So sessions run into the
issue of scalability, and it can be kind
of difficult to translate when you're trying to
run multiple servers at once. But besides that,
sessions are still useful. So we're not saying
sessions are bad, we're just saying like this
is one of the cons of sessions to
keep take into consideration. So another thing we
have are tokens. Right? So tokens are able
to solve this problem of scalability that we
previously saw with sessions. The way that tokens
work is that a user is going to
submit their login form. So they're sending the
post request to the server, pinging the API
login endpoint. And the server is going to
take in the user's credentials and create a
unique JSON web token object for the client.
Now the client is going to put this
token in their local storage. And upon make
or sorry. In making future requests, the client
is going to send this token back to
the server with the signed header that is
going to get decrypted by the server and
validated upon future requests. So the token actually
carries the user's credentials, but very securely because
you can't spoof a token. So it's going
to carry the user's credentials, and the server
is going to be able to decrypt this
token and use it to basically give the
user all of its information that it should
have access to. And so let's contrast this
with sessions. Right? So remember sessions, we had
this global lookup table. It stores all the
user information on the server side. And with
tokens, instead, the user information or sorry, the
user credentials are stored in this token object,
but this token object is encrypted very securely.
And so the server is decrypting this token
using the token's header that gets sent back
when the client makes future requests. So turn
and talk to your neighbor again. Why do
you think tokens solve the problem of verifying
that we're logged in securely upon making future
requests? How is this different than the dilemmas
we described before? How is it different than
sessions? I'll give you guys, like, thirty seconds
to talk about it. Okay. So hopefully you
guys had some time to discuss it once
again. Now, would anyone like to, I don't
know, offer an answer? Okay. It's okay. But
basically, token solve the problem for us because
tokens can't be spoofed. So I mentioned this
before, right? We can spoof our IP addresses,
we can very easily change or delete our
URL query parameters, but tokens cannot be spoofed
because they are, like, these securely created JSON
objects that then send back the signature that
gets decrypted by the server. So only the
server can decrypt the tokens for us. And
a user cannot forge a token, which is
why we're not really trusting the client even
though it might seem like the client is
sending the token back. We're not trusting the
client because the client cannot forge this token.
This token was securely generated by the server,
and the client is simply sending it back.
Let's do a quick review of the difference
between sessions and tokens. So with sessions, the
authentication details are stored on the server side.
With tokens, the user itself is storing their
authentication details in the form of the token
itself. When making future requests, the user is
going to send back a cookie with sessions
to have the request authorized. But with tokens,
the user sends back the token itself. And
what the server does in the case of
sessions is it's going to go to its
database and find the session thanks to the
ID that was sent with the cookie. And
once it finds the session in the global
lookup table, it can send back all of
the user information and verify that the user
credentials are correct. With tokens, the server is
going to decrypt the token, verify its signature,
and check that this is like an actual
valid token that was generated by the server
previously. So let's pose a question. Do you
guys think that the server can perform security
actions in the case of sessions? Thumbs up
for yes, thumbs down for no. I think
like thumbs down, thumbs kind of like a
mix. But for sessions, the answer is actually
yes because all of the authentication details are
stored on the server side. Right? So this
means the server can actually perform all of
the security actions it needs to because all
of the details are stored on the server
side. How about for tokens? Do you guys
think thumbs up, the server can perform security
actions, thumbs down for no? Yeah, exactly. Thumbs
down, right? Because this time, the authentication details
are stored on the user side. So the
server doesn't actually have access to the or
sorry, not access, but the server is not
storing the authentication details. So on the server
side, we can't really perform much security actions
because the user is storing their details themselves.
One thing to note though is that actually,
it's fine. Okay. Does anyone have any questions?
I'm pause here to give you guys some
time to process what we just talked about.
Okay. So now let's talk about Catbook. How
are we incorporating all of this information that
we just learned into Catbook? So Catbook's way
of managing login is what we're going to
do is we're going to have a separate
auth server and a resource server. We talked
about before how storing passwords is like really
difficult, so we're just going to let Google
do it for us. They're going handle all
the authentication details and we're hopefully not going
to have to deal with it. So when
users initially sign in to Catbook, what they're
going to do is they're going to sign
in using Google. And what Google is going
to do is Google is going to generate
a token for the user and be like,
hey, here's your token. The user is going
to take this token and send it to
the server. The server is going to verify
this token. And then in order for the
user to stay logged in, the server is
going to generate sessions for the user. So
remember we talked about with sessions and tokens,
sessions scalability is kind of hard because we're
storing all of these global lookup tables, so
if we have multiple servers, it's difficult. Luckily,
we only have one server, so our server
can use these sessions to manage login and
persist login information. Tokens don't have the issue
of scalability, so even though Google has like
millions of these millions of users in this
super large platform, these tokens make it really
easy because the server itself doesn't have to
store the user's information. So here's our sign
in flow proposal. Right? So I'm going to
sign in to the Google auth server, and
let's say it was a success. Now I'm
going to tell my server that I logged
in, and the server is going to check
the user database to see if I'm actually
a user. But let's say, like, I type
in the wrong password. Right? I could still
theoretically tell the server that I've already successfully
authenticated with Google. And then there's nothing stopping
me from, like, as a malicious hacker, just
saying that I already successfully authenticated with Google.
Right? So this goes back to a point
of like never trusting the client because the
front end can very easily be modified. So
that's why we're gonna use the tokens. Right?
So Google is going to generate a token
for us, which remember, tokens are securely generated,
cannot be spoofed by the user. So now,
we take this token and we give our
token to the server and say, yeah, I
did actually log in with Google and my
token is proof that I've successfully authenticated with
Google because I can't, like, forge this token.
So now the server is going to make
sure this is a legit token by checking
in the Google auth library that it was
very conveniently set up for us. And then
once it verifies that it's a legit token,
it's going to check the user database. It's
not going to work if you're a hacker
because the hacker is not going to get
a token. So this sign in flow is
not going to work. Even if you, like,
spoof a token, the server is going to
check-in the Google auth library and see that
this is a forged token, so you're not
gonna be able to get your information. Okay.
So now let's demo this. You guys can
also take, like, a two minute break while
we get set up. Okay. So now let's
take a quick look at how we can
actually see our tokens and cookies being sent.
So let's navigate to Catbook. If you guys
want to follow along, can go to get
checkout w five complete. And basically, what I'm
going to do is I'm going to log
in to Google. So now we have like
this sign in option. Right? So I'm gonna
log in. I'll log in as myself. And
we'll see that once I've logged in, right,
I should be able to go to inspect.
And I can go to network tab. Let's
refresh. Let's sign out. Sign in again. We
should see this login if we go to
our network tab. Right? And so this is
us ping the login endpoint on our Catbook
server. And if we go to the if
we click on the request, right, we can
see, like, the request URL is being sent
to our API login endpoint is a post
request. And we can also see that if
we go to the payload, we have our
token here. So this is the token that
Google is actually giving to us upon authorizing
with the Google auth library. And so what
we can do is we can actually take
this token. It's pretty cool because you can
take this token and you can go to
this website called jwt.io. And you can actually
try and follow along and paste the token
that you get into jwt..io. And you can
see that we have our encoded token here.
And once we decode it, we actually have
a lot of information that is stored in
this token. So we can see things like
my email address, my name, and also like
all the other user credentials that are actually
being stored within this token. But the header
and the payload of this token are not
actually secure. It's just like base 64 encoded,
so it's very easily decryptable. But what actually
makes it secure is the signature part of
the token, which I've, like, deleted just for,
like, security purposes. But, basically, the signature is
what actually makes a token secure. So, yeah,
you guys can see, like, if you check
the login post request and you go to
the request payload, you should be able to
see the token that Google is sending to
you to the client to prove that they
have logged in. Okay. So now let's talk
about our cookies. So we got our token.
Right? So if we go back to Catbook,
now let's take a look at our cookies.
You can go to the cookies tab, and
we notice that we have like this connect
dot sid cookie, which is also shown like
if we go to the headers of the
login request, we should also see like we
have this cookie right right here where it
starts with, like, g enabled. And so this
cookie is actually enabling us to stay logged
in. So once we've pinged the login endpoint
and Google has given us a token, we
then take that token, give it to the
server, and the server will generate this cookie
for us to ensure that we can stay
logged in even if I refresh the page.
So you see that, like, even if I
refresh Catbook, right, I'm still logged in. Like,
the sign out button is still there, which
means I haven't been signed out. And what
we can try is oops. We can try
it to look at is, let's say we,
like, go back to the cookie. Let me
log in again. Let's go back to it
and let's like try like going to our
headers. Looks like application. And let's like delete
the cookie. Okay? So I'm just gonna like
manually delete this cookie. And you should notice
now that if I refresh, I'll automatically be
signed out. So if you delete the cookie
just like manually, you're no longer going to
be signed into Catbook, right, because you're no
longer going to be able to send requests
back with the cookie to the server to
prove that you've already logged in. So this
is how our Catbook server is able to
manage users and persist their sessions. Yeah. So
it's kind of talked about how if we
manually delete the cookie, we automatically get logged
out. And remember that when we make future
requests and we ping like other endpoints, we
are actually sending the cookie back as identity
verification. So we can see that, like, if
I just, like, sign in again. I should
be able to see, like, in my network
tab that I have, like, other requests. Right?
So I'm, like, making other requests. So I
should have, like, Like when I make comment
requests, you can notice that I'm like sending
the cookie in the request each time I
make a get request to our server. Okay.
So that was kind of like a lot
of information. So let's recap really quickly before
we dive into the workshop. Let's talk about
the difference between authentication and authorization. So authentication
is a process of use verifying our users
credentials. So this is like, if Sophie is
visiting my house, authentication would be like me
saying, Sophie, I recognize Sophie and Sophie can't
enter my house. Authorization is a process of
actually verifying the user's permissions and rendering different
things conditionally depending on what permissions that user
might have. So if Sophie comes over to
my house, like, yes, I recognize her, but
do I give her the permission or the
authorization to enter my bathroom or, like, enter
certain rooms inside of my house? We saw
that it's really hard to trust the client.
We can't trust things that the user is
saying because URL query parameters, you can like
delete these, change these IP addresses, you can
spoof them. So we need to use something
that's a little bit more secure. So we're
going to use sessions and tokens. So for
us, what happens is Google Auth is taking
in the user's credentials, it's generating this secure
token and sending it back to the client.
And this token is verified via the privately
generated signature that we saw. And then what's
happening is now the user has this token.
They can make a request to the login
API endpoint in r server dot j s
file of Catbook. The server can check if
the token is valid by checking in the
Google auth library. And if it is, then
the server can go check MongoDB or it
can store the user's information within MongoDB. And
this is like the cookie that we saw
here, where if we deleted it, the user
is no longer logged in. Now the user
is going to send the cookie back that
was generated by the server with its unique
ID on subsequent requests to prove that the
user has already been authenticated. And then now,
the server will give authorization and, like, display
your, like, cat book stories and comments. And
as we're going to see tomorrow in the
sockets lecture, real time messages also. Does anyone
have any questions? Okay. Cool. That was all
for the intro to auth. Now Sophie is
going to take you to the very meaty
workshop.